Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to show you a mystery, action,
crime film called “Minority Report.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In the year 2054, three oracle-like beings
called pre-cognitives or precogs appeared.
The precogs have the ability to see glimpses
of the future in visions and can see hours
to even days ahead.
An experimental branch of crime-fighting called
the Department of Precrime is created, and
they use the precogs in stopping murders before
they occur.
John Anderton is chief of the precrime division
and personally leads a task force responding
to potential murders.
When the precogs have a vision of a murder,
the visuals are transferred to a screen where
the task force analyses the footage to determine
the time and place of the murder.
Every time a crime is confirmed to happen,
two wooden balls are produced containing the
names of the victim and the perpetrator.
John arrives at the department and gets the
first assignment for the day, a murder perpetrated
by a man who has caught his wife having an
affair.
John sifts through the image, trying to determine
the location of the crime.
With careful deduction and attention to detail,
John finds where the married couple is living.
As they were preparing to disembark, Danny
Witwer comes in from the Justice Department
to do an inquest on the precrime department
to look for any potential errors or flaws
in the system.
John and the team get into choppers and arrive
at the neighborhood.
John makes a last-minute analysis to pinpoint
the couple’s house.
After identifying the correct house, he rushes
in, barely making it in time and arriving
just before the man stabs his wife.
As John reprimands the perpetrator, the rest
of the team burst in through the roof and
they arrest the man.
They place a technological halo on the man,
rendering him catatonic.
Back at the department, Danny notices the
precogs having another vision of the same
crime that John had just stopped.
A cop explains that the precogs would sometimes
have similar visions called echoes.
The technician, Wally, then simply deletes
these echoes.
That night, John goes for a jog and finds
his drug dealer.
He gets his fit and heads back to his house.
He plays a holographic recording of a young
boy, his son Sean.
John appears saddened and takes his drugs.
He plays another hologram of his wife Lara,
someone he clearly misses dearly.
The following day, Lamar Burgess, the department
director talks to John, expressing his concern
about the inquest from the Justice Department.
He warns John to keep watch on Danny as he
could be a potential hurdle for the department’s
progression.
At the main office, Danny chats with a few
precrime cops while one of them explains the
process of the precogs and precrime.
Danny argues that the department isn’t really
arresting criminals as the crimes are never
committed but John tells him that the precogs’
visions are an absolute certainty.
Danny then reveals that he’s there on behalf
of the country’s attorney general and that
the whole operation would now be under his
supervision.
The group heads into the precog chamber where
the caretaker Wally immediately protests their
presence.
He explains to them that the precogs are extremely
sensitive and that they’ll have to be very
quiet.
Wally explains to Danny that the pond where
the precogs are submerged not only serves
as their main source of nutrients but also
amplifies their abilities.
The three precogs, Arthur, Dash, and Agatha,
are kept in a dream-like state, never too
awake, and never too asleep, as this has the
best potential for their abilities.
Agatha is the most gifted among the three
but all of them are needed to create the best
prediction of the future.
Each of the precogs receives a vision stream
and is combined.
Danny explains that the precogs may be the
next huge step for humanity and he’s there
to make sure the process is bulletproof, with
no room for any error.
The group leaves and John remains, staring
at Agatha.
Agatha suddenly wakes up and grabs John, hugging
him.
She asks him in a whisper if he can see and
John looks at the screen to see a vision of
a man drowning a woman.
Agatha slips back into the water and Wally
rushes in to help Agatha.
Curious to know about what Agatha showed him,
John heads to the containment room where the
prisoners are kept in a catatonic sleeping
state.
He asks to see Agatha’s visions of drowned
victims and finds old precrime footage for
Anne Lively.
The murder had been prevented and the suspect
is still being kept in the facility.
The survivor Anne Lively was a drug addict
and John finds her location is unknown.
He heads to Lamar and tells him about what
happened.
Lamar brushes it off and changes the subject,
talking about how he’s heard reports that
John has been seen in shadier parts of the
city, alluding to his drug addiction.
Lamar also brings up the importance of precrime
and how it could change the country if brought
to a national scale.
Danny arrives at John’s apartment and sees
substances and evidence of his drug abuse.
He also sees Sean’s hologram recording.
Back at the department, a new name appears
from the precogs: Leo Crow.
John analyzes the footage immediately.
As he scrubs through the image, he’s mortified
to see that it’s him who’s supposed to
kill Leo.
Before the other technician sees, John grabs
his name on the ball and swipes away the image.
Distraught, John tries to review the image
trying to see if there’s some sort of error
but the more he reviews the image, the more
he sees that there is no mistake.
He will indeed kill Leo.
Wally from the precog chamber sees the image.
He understands that he’ll have to sound
the alarm, but since John has been nice to
him, he’s willing to give him a few minutes
to escape.
On his way out, John runs into Danny in the
elevator.
Danny tries to confront him about what he
found in John’s apartment but John holds
him at gunpoint and escapes.
On the highway, John calls Lamar telling him
he thinks Danny set him up.
The crime makes no sense as it’s supposed
to happen in 36 hours and he doesn’t even
know who Leo is.
John’s car gets overwritten by precrime
and he has to jump off.
The precrime team prepares to hunt John and
Danny wants to take over the operation.
He tells Lamar that John’s apprehension
is now his concern as he’s performing an
investigation on the department.
While John tries to make his way through a
mall, he realizes that the retinal scan makes
him an extremely easy target to find.
Retinal scans at almost every door and entrance
quickly identify anyone walking through.
In the subway, precrime officers find John
and he makes his way to an alley.
Precrime cops are easy to swarm him but John
tries to escape.
Even with jetpacks, John still outmaneuvers
and outsmarts the cops.
He runs into Danny and the chase leads them
to a car manufacturing plant where John and
Danny get into a scuffle.
John falls into the assembly line and ends
up getting trapped inside a car.
As the car finishes assembly, John drives
off in it, leaving Danny and the rest.
John heads to the precog’s creators, Iris
Hineman.
He asks Iris if the visions can be faked.
Iris laughs and tells John that the precog’s
creation was a complete accident.
She was, in fact, trying to heal them but
instead turned them into precogs.
The precogs, as it turns out, come from drug
junkie parents.
They were only the three survivors out of
a number of children who were born with severe
brain damage.
As Iris studied them, the children started
having nightmares of murders.
They realized that these were glimpses into
the future.
The point still stands, however, that the
precogs’ visions are real.
Iris says that the precogs are never wrong,
but adds that they may sometimes disagree.
Iris explains that most of the time, all three
of them see the same vision but once in a
while, Agatha would see a different future.
These, so-called, minority reports are immediately
destroyed upon detection as precrime can’t
have a system that would instill doubt.
This indicates that alternate futures are
possible, and not all murder suspects could
have actually committed the crime.
John is dumbfounded by this revelation as
it would make the precrime system collapse.
John now decides to try and find his alternate
future, his minority report, where he doesn’t
kill Leo.
The report still lies within Agatha.
Danny and the precops are analyzing the visions,
trying to find out what John is going to do
next.
Danny predicts John would still try to prove
his innocence.
John finds his way to an underground surgeon
and has his eyes replaced so that he won’t
get identified when he makes his way into
the department.
After the procedure, John has to keep his
eyes covered as it still needs time to heal.
John falls asleep and has a dream about his
son Sean.
In his dream, John and Sean are having fun
at a public pool, playing games.
They contest with each other who could hold
their breath the longest underwater.
When John surfaces, Sean is gone.
He tries looking for him in the crowd but
Sean is nowhere to be seen.
John wakes up screaming Sean’s name and
stumbles his way to the kitchen.
Precops arrive at the building John’s staying
at and send robotic spiders to scan the eyes
of everyone in the building.
John hears the announcement and tries to block
the spiders from entering his room but the
spiders find a way in.
He then goes to the bathroom and tries to
submerge himself in a bathtub to hide but
the spiders still find him.
The spiders electrocute him, forcing him to
have his eye scanned.
He pries his bandage open and painfully tries
to open his eyes.
A spider scans his eye and it reads him as
a different person.
At the precrime department, Danny is still
analyzing the footage of the precog vision
and he sees there’s a woman in the room
with John and Leo.
John makes his way into the building through
maintenance corridors and arrives at the precog
chamber.
Danny recognizes the woman in the vision as
Agatha and realizes John is coming to get
her.
John orders Wally to rewind the visions but
Danny and the team arrive.
Danny smashes the window but John drains the
pool, grabbing Agatha, and escaping down the
drain.
John drives with Agatha and he tries to ask
her about the vision of him killing Leo but
she responds incoherently.
John then heads to a virtual reality hub and
finds Rufus.
At the virtual reality hub, they plug Agatha
in and she shows them the vision of Leo and
John.
The vision plays out the same way as before,
ending with John shooting Leo.
John then asks Agatha if he has a minority
report but Agatha answers no.
John learns that he is indeed supposed to
kill Leo.
Agatha once again shows the vision of a drowned
woman and the killer.
John and Rufus watch but before the killer
reveals himself, precops arrive.
John and Agatha have to escape again, making
their way through a crowded mall.
They find themselves at the building where
John would kill Leo and see there is only
12 minutes before the designated time.
John and Agatha enter the building and make
their way up to the room where the murder
would supposedly take place.
John examines the room and sees a bed full
of pictures.
He approaches it and sees it full with pictures
of children.
He finds a string of photographs showing Leo
and Sean together.
John realizes that him murdering Leo is no
accident at all.
He accepts his fate and when Leo arrives,
John attacks him.
Leo admits to killing Sean and John pummels
him.
John then pulls out his gun and points it
at Leo.
He is about to pull the trigger, but stops
and instead places Leo under arrest.
John cries as he reads Leo his Miranda Rights
but Leo looks puzzled.
Leo asks if John is going to kill him and
John answers no.
Leo then admits to John that somebody contacted
him and paid him and his family if he allows
John to kill him.
He says that he was released from prison and
that a lot of money will go to his family
if he gets John to kill him.
John is confused and asks Leo about the pictures.
He admits they were fake and starts begging
John to kill him.
The two get into a scuffle and John ends up
accidentally pulling the trigger and shooting
Leo, fulfilling his destiny.
He and Agatha then flee.
Danny and the team catch up, and Danny immediately
recognizes the scene as being too convenient.
He argues there is too much evidence at the
crime scene and immediately suspects something
awry.
Danny meets with Lamar and tells him he feels
going after John is the wrong decision.
Danny shows Lamar two copies of Anne Lively’s
murder; one from precrime, and the other from
the virtual reality hub.
He compares the two, and shows Lamar that
there are small differences in the two footages.
He suspects that the two visions are two completely
separate crimes made to look similar.
The technician would have figured it was only
an echo and would have deleted it.
Danny suspects that for this to happen, someone
would just have to hire someone else to kill
Anne Lively.
The precogs would detect it, and precops would
swoop in to prevent the crime and take the
suspect away.
The mastermind could then come in, dress the
same way, and do the exact same crime.
The precogs might detect it but a technician
would probably think it an echo and delete
it.
Lamar nods understandingly, then pulls out
a gun and shoots Danny.
Danny finally realizes who’s behind everything
but can only stare as Lamar closes in and
shoots him in the head.
John arrives at his ex-wife Lara’s house
to hide.
Unbeknownst to John, Lara had called Lamar
letting him know that John had arrived with
Agatha.
John and Lara talk by the pier, and John finally
realizes why he had been set up.
It was all about Anne Lively.
Agatha then tells John about seeing Sean's
possible future from his adolescence up to
his early adulthood.
John and Lara listen intently, breaking down
in tears.
Agatha then reveals to John that Anne Lively
is her mother.
Before Agatha could reveal her mother’s
killer, precops arrive and capture John.
In his house, Lara and Lamar speak and in
an attempt to comfort Lara, Burgess accidentally
reveals himself as the killer by disclosing
details about the crime only the killer would
know.
As Lamar prepares for his celebratory banquet
dinner, Lara heads to precrime to free John.
After finishing his congratulatory speech,
Lamar receives a phone call and is shocked
to hear it’s John.
John reveals Lamar’s plan by streaming the
video of Anne Lively’s death at the banquet,
and the entire crowd sees Lamar as the killer.
In the department, the precogs see a vision
of Lamar killing John.
Lamar then comes face to face with John and
is now left with a choice: kill John and prove
that the precogs work, or don’t shoot John
and disprove the precogs.
Lamar then decides to shoot himself, and as
the precops arrive, Lamar falls to the floor.
Time passes and the precrime division is placed
on permanent hold.
John and Lara cradle one another, finding
meaning in the future, hoping it would still
hold something for them.
The precogs are removed from the Department
of Precrime and placed in a safe environment
where they could live the rest of their lives
in peace.